NFS storage concept (#842)
kyma-project/community: concepts/nfs-storage/README.md

- different implementation for AWS and GCP
- [issues](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/create-instance-issues#system_limit_for_internal_resources_has_been_reached_error_when_creating_an_instance) with private network quota for Filestore
- cleanup of backing NFS stores not guaranteed when in-cluster provisioning is used (CSI driver)
- more difficult to create clear backup and restore objects, as the provisioning is dynamic and it is not as clear on how to deal with backups and how to "target" them, e.g. based on name or UUID?

**Decision: NO for dynamic provisioning due to security issues with sharing cloud subscription credentials with customers**

## Create storage service in shoot VPC vs use dedicated VPC and peer it with shoot VPC

**Using shoot VPC**

![](nfs-shoot-vpc.drawio.svg)

**Pros:**
- simpler implementation (provisioning)

**Cons:**
- if clusters are deleted and created with different shoot name we can face [issues](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/create-instance-issues#system_limit_for_internal_resources_has_been_reached_error_when_creating_an_instance) with private network quota for Filestore (it is not a common usage pattern)

> - storage instance can block cluster deprovisioning (not a big deal as storage controller in the KCP should clean it up anyway)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- storage instances and private endpoints in the shoot subnet can block cluster de-provisioning (not a big deal as storage controller in the KCP should clean them up anyway)
```
